#Skew-T Virtual Sounding Plotter#

##About##

A program to generate Skew-T meteorological data plots from GRIB files output by 
meteorological forecasting models, also known as a virtual sounding.
It is intended for use as an easy-to-use educational tool by students or
researchers.
The program uses the
[UCAR/Unidata NetCDF-Java](http://www.unidata.ucar.edu/software/thredds/current/netcdf-java/)
library for GRIB file reading and JavaFX 8 for the GUI.
Licensed under the GNU General Public License version 3.

##Status##

The program has implemented all features listed at a basic level.
Currently it is able to read in GRIB1 and GRIB2 files published on the
[NOAA NOMADS](http://nomads.ncdc.noaa.gov/data.php?name=access) site.
Further work on fixing bugs and adding features is ongoing.
Feedback and bug reports are welcomed; simply submit them as issues and provide
a detailed description.

##Features##

* Generate high-quality Skew-T/Log-P plots from temperature and dew point data
  at various isobaric levels
* Convert relative humidity to dew point as needed
* Calculate values such as lifting condensation level (LCL), K-index,
  Total Totals, and SWEAT depending on data available
* Read GRIB1 and GRIB2 files output by the NOAA RAP, NAM, and GFS forecasting
  models
* Output high-resolution (approximately 300 DPI) plot to a PNG file

##Requirements##

###Running###

* Java 8 SE
* Desktop operating system with windowing system (e.g. Microsoft Windows,
  Apple Mac OS X, Linux with X11)

###Building###

* Java 8 Development Kit and Java 8 SE runtime
* Apache Maven 3

Maven should pull in all required dependencies automatically.
Simply run `mvn package` to build.
Alternately, you can open the project in NetBeans 8.1 or above and build from
there.

##Citing/Acknowledging##

Citing or acknowledging Skew-T Virtual Sounding Plotter in works that use plots
generated by it is *not* required; however, it is much appreciated.

BibTeX example:

    @software{skewtvsp,
        author = {{Donovan Smith}},
        title = {Skew-T Virtual Sounding Plotter},
        url = {https://github.com/donovan1983/Skew-TVirtualSoundingPlotter},
        version = {0.1.0},
        year = {2016},
    }

Text example:

    Donovan Smith, (2016): Skew-T Virtual Sounding Plotter (SkewTVSP) version 0.1.0 [software].
    (https://github.com/donovan1983/Skew-TVirtualSoundingPlotter)
